item	sentence	itemType	audio	t1choice1	t1choice2	t2dialog	t2choice1	t2choice2
sonnet	He wrote a sonnet	presentabsent	sonnet_absent_high.mp3	What did John do?	What did John write?	"John is taking an English class. For his final project, he could write a sonnet or a short story, or analyze a play."	"Oh, you're surprised that he wrote a sonnet, and didn't analyze a play?"	"Oh, you're surprised that he wrote a sonnet, and not a short story?"
sonnet	He wrote a sonnet	presentabsent	sonnet_absent_extrahigh.mp3	What did John do?	What did John write?	"John is taking an English class. For his final project, he could write a sonnet or a short story, or analyze a play."	"Oh, you're surprised that he wrote a sonnet, and didn't analyze a play?"	"Oh, you're surprised that he wrote a sonnet, and not a short story?"
sonnet	He wrote a sonnet	presentabsent	sonnet_present_high.mp3	What did John do?	What did John write?	"John is taking an English class. For his final project, he could write a sonnet or a short story, or analyze a play."	"Oh, you're surprised that he wrote a sonnet, and didn't analyze a play?"	"Oh, you're surprised that he wrote a sonnet, and not a short story?"
sonnet	He wrote a sonnet	presentabsent	sonnet_present_extrahigh.mp3	What did John do?	What did John write?	"John is taking an English class. For his final project, he could write a sonnet or a short story, or analyze a play."	"Oh, you're surprised that he wrote a sonnet, and didn't analyze a play?"	"Oh, you're surprised that he wrote a sonnet, and not a short story?"
candle	She bought a candle	presentabsent	candle_absent_high.mp3	What did Anna do?	What did Anna buy?	"Anna wants to give her mother a birthday gift. She could buy a candle or a mug, or make a bracelet."	"Oh, you're surprised that she bought a candle, and didn't make a bracelet?"	"Oh, you're surprised that she bought a candle, and not a mug?"
candle	She bought a candle	presentabsent	candle_absent_extrahigh.mp3	What did Anna do?	What did Anna buy?	"Anna wants to give her mother a birthday gift. She could buy a candle or a mug, or make a bracelet."	"Oh, you're surprised that she bought a candle, and didn't make a bracelet?"	"Oh, you're surprised that she bought a candle, and not a mug?"
candle	She bought a candle	presentabsent	candle_present_high.mp3	What did Anna do?	What did Anna buy?	"Anna wants to give her mother a birthday gift. She could buy a candle or a mug, or make a bracelet."	"Oh, you're surprised that she bought a candle, and didn't make a bracelet?"	"Oh, you're surprised that she bought a candle, and not a mug?"
candle	She bought a candle	presentabsent	candle_present_extrahigh.mp3	What did Anna do?	What did Anna buy?	"Anna wants to give her mother a birthday gift. She could buy a candle or a mug, or make a bracelet."	"Oh, you're surprised that she bought a candle, and didn't make a bracelet?"	"Oh, you're surprised that she bought a candle, and not a mug?"
flower	He drew a flower	presentabsent	flower_absent_high.mp3	What did Dennis do?	What did Dennis draw?	"Dennis is taking an art class. In the studio, he could draw a tree or a flower, or sculpt an apple."	"Oh, you're surprised that he drew a flower, and didn't sculpt an apple?"	"Oh, you're surprised that he drew a flower, and not a tree?"
flower	He drew a flower	presentabsent	flower_absent_extrahigh.mp3	What did Dennis do?	What did Dennis draw?	"Dennis is taking an art class. In the studio, he could draw a tree or a flower, or sculpt an apple."	"Oh, you're surprised that he drew a flower, and didn't sculpt an apple?"	"Oh, you're surprised that he drew a flower, and not a tree?"
flower	He drew a flower	presentabsent	flower_present_high.mp3	What did Dennis do?	What did Dennis draw?	"Dennis is taking an art class. In the studio, he could draw a tree or a flower, or sculpt an apple."	"Oh, you're surprised that he drew a flower, and didn't sculpt an apple?"	"Oh, you're surprised that he drew a flower, and not a tree?"
flower	He drew a flower	presentabsent	flower_present_extrahigh.mp3	What did Dennis do?	What did Dennis draw?	"Dennis is taking an art class. In the studio, he could draw a tree or a flower, or sculpt an apple."	"Oh, you're surprised that he drew a flower, and didn't sculpt an apple?"	"Oh, you're surprised that he drew a flower, and not a tree?"
dragon	He fought a dragon	presentabsent	dragon_absent_high.mp3	What did Nick do?	What did Nick fight?	"Nick is playing a video game. On his next turn, he could fight a knight or a dragon, or loot the ruins."	"Oh, you're surprised that he fought a dragon, and didn't loot the ruins?"	"Oh, you're surprised that he fought a dragon, and not a knight?"
dragon	He fought a dragon	presentabsent	dragon_absent_extrahigh.mp3	What did Nick do?	What did Nick fight?	"Nick is playing a video game. On his next turn, he could fight a knight or a dragon, or loot the ruins."	"Oh, you're surprised that he fought a dragon, and didn't loot the ruins?"	"Oh, you're surprised that he fought a dragon, and not a knight?"
dragon	He fought a dragon	presentabsent	dragon_present_high.mp3	What did Nick do?	What did Nick fight?	"Nick is playing a video game. On his next turn, he could fight a knight or a dragon, or loot the ruins."	"Oh, you're surprised that he fought a dragon, and didn't loot the ruins?"	"Oh, you're surprised that he fought a dragon, and not a knight?"
dragon	He fought a dragon	presentabsent	dragon_present_extrahigh.mp3	What did Nick do?	What did Nick fight?	"Nick is playing a video game. On his next turn, he could fight a knight or a dragon, or loot the ruins."	"Oh, you're surprised that he fought a dragon, and didn't loot the ruins?"	"Oh, you're surprised that he fought a dragon, and not a knight?"
monkeys	She fed the monkeys	presentabsent	monkeys_absent_high.mp3	What did Megan do?	Which animals did Megan feed?	"Megan is a zookeeper. Before her lunch break, she could feed the penguins or the monkeys, or sweep an enclosure."	"Oh, you're surprised that she fed the monkeys, and didn't sweep an enclosure?"	"Oh, you're surprised that she fed the monkeys, and not the penguins?"
monkeys	She fed the monkeys	presentabsent	monkeys_absent_extrahigh.mp3	What did Megan do?	Which animals did Megan feed?	"Megan is a zookeeper. Before her lunch break, she could feed the penguins or the monkeys, or sweep an enclosure."	"Oh, you're surprised that she fed the monkeys, and didn't sweep an enclosure?"	"Oh, you're surprised that she fed the monkeys, and not the penguins?"
monkeys	She fed the monkeys	presentabsent	monkeys_present_high.mp3	What did Megan do?	Which animals did Megan feed?	"Megan is a zookeeper. Before her lunch break, she could feed the penguins or the monkeys, or sweep an enclosure."	"Oh, you're surprised that she fed the monkeys, and didn't sweep an enclosure?"	"Oh, you're surprised that she fed the monkeys, and not the penguins?"
monkeys	She fed the monkeys	presentabsent	monkeys_present_extrahigh.mp3	What did Megan do?	Which animals did Megan feed?	"Megan is a zookeeper. Before her lunch break, she could feed the penguins or the monkeys, or sweep an enclosure."	"Oh, you're surprised that she fed the monkeys, and didn't sweep an enclosure?"	"Oh, you're surprised that she fed the monkeys, and not the penguins?"
novel	She read a novel	presentabsent	novel_absent_high.mp3	What did Jane do?	What did Jane read?	"Jane is getting on a long flight. On the plane, she could read a novel or a magazine, or watch a movie."	"Oh, you're surprised that she read a novel, and didn't watch a movie?"	"Oh, you're surprised that she read a novel, and not a magazine?"
novel	She read a novel	presentabsent	novel_absent_extrahigh.mp3	What did Jane do?	What did Jane read?	"Jane is getting on a long flight. On the plane, she could read a novel or a magazine, or watch a movie."	"Oh, you're surprised that she read a novel, and didn't watch a movie?"	"Oh, you're surprised that she read a novel, and not a magazine?"
novel	She read a novel	presentabsent	novel_present_high.mp3	What did Jane do?	What did Jane read?	"Jane is getting on a long flight. On the plane, she could read a novel or a magazine, or watch a movie."	"Oh, you're surprised that she read a novel, and didn't watch a movie?"	"Oh, you're surprised that she read a novel, and not a magazine?"
novel	She read a novel	presentabsent	novel_present_extrahigh.mp3	What did Jane do?	What did Jane read?	"Jane is getting on a long flight. On the plane, she could read a novel or a magazine, or watch a movie."	"Oh, you're surprised that she read a novel, and didn't watch a movie?"	"Oh, you're surprised that she read a novel, and not a magazine?"
salmon	He fried the salmon	presentabsent	salmon_absent_high.mp3	What did Andrew do?	What did Andrew fry?	"Andrew is making dinner. He could fry the tofu or the salmon, or bake the chicken."	"Oh, you're surprised that he fried the salmon, and didn't bake the chicken?"	"Oh, you're surprised that he fried the salmon, and not the tofu?"
salmon	He fried the salmon	presentabsent	salmon_absent_extrahigh.mp3	What did Andrew do?	What did Andrew fry?	"Andrew is making dinner. He could fry the tofu or the salmon, or bake the chicken."	"Oh, you're surprised that he fried the salmon, and didn't bake the chicken?"	"Oh, you're surprised that he fried the salmon, and not the tofu?"
salmon	He fried the salmon	presentabsent	salmon_present_high.mp3	What did Andrew do?	What did Andrew fry?	"Andrew is making dinner. He could fry the tofu or the salmon, or bake the chicken."	"Oh, you're surprised that he fried the salmon, and didn't bake the chicken?"	"Oh, you're surprised that he fried the salmon, and not the tofu?"
salmon	He fried the salmon	presentabsent	salmon_present_extrahigh.mp3	What did Andrew do?	What did Andrew fry?	"Andrew is making dinner. He could fry the tofu or the salmon, or bake the chicken."	"Oh, you're surprised that he fried the salmon, and didn't bake the chicken?"	"Oh, you're surprised that he fried the salmon, and not the tofu?"
table	She cleaned the table	presentabsent	table_absent_high.mp3	What did Katie do?	What did Katie clean?	"Katie’s mother will pay her $2 if she does a chore. She could clean the table or the counter, or take out the trash."	"Oh, you're surprised that she cleaned the table, and didn't take out the trash?"	"Oh, you're surprised that she cleaned the table, and not the counter?"
table	She cleaned the table	presentabsent	table_absent_extrahigh.mp3	What did Katie do?	What did Katie clean?	"Katie’s mother will pay her $2 if she does a chore. She could clean the table or the counter, or take out the trash."	"Oh, you're surprised that she cleaned the table, and didn't take out the trash?"	"Oh, you're surprised that she cleaned the table, and not the counter?"
table	She cleaned the table	presentabsent	table_present_high.mp3	What did Katie do?	What did Katie clean?	"Katie’s mother will pay her $2 if she does a chore. She could clean the table or the counter, or take out the trash."	"Oh, you're surprised that she cleaned the table, and didn't take out the trash?"	"Oh, you're surprised that she cleaned the table, and not the counter?"
table	She cleaned the table	presentabsent	table_present_extrahigh.mp3	What did Katie do?	What did Katie clean?	"Katie’s mother will pay her $2 if she does a chore. She could clean the table or the counter, or take out the trash."	"Oh, you're surprised that she cleaned the table, and didn't take out the trash?"	"Oh, you're surprised that she cleaned the table, and not the counter?"
lily	Lily baked the brownies	NPAsubjobj	lily_NPAsubj.mp3	Who baked the brownies?	What did Lily bake?	"Lily, Chris, and Dylan each baked a dessert for the party. They had cake, pie, and brownies."	"Oh, you're surprised that it was Lily who baked the brownies, and not Chris?"	"Oh, you're surprised that Lily baked the brownies, and not the pie?"
lily	Lily baked the brownies	NPAsubjobj	lily_NPAobj.mp3	Who baked the brownies?	What did Lily bake?	"Lily, Chris, and Dylan each baked a dessert for the party. They had cake, pie, and brownies."	"Oh, you're surprised that it was Lily who baked the brownies, and not Chris?"	"Oh, you're surprised that Lily baked the brownies, and not the pie?"
manny	Manny painted the diner	NPAsubjobj	manny_NPAsubj.mp3	Who painted the diner?	What did Manny paint?	"Alex, Manny, and Jessica are set designers for a play. Today, each person painted one piece of the set. They finished the house, the diner, and the backdrop."	"Oh, you're surprised that it was Manny who painted the diner, and not Alex?"	"Oh, you're surprised that Manny painted the diner, and not the backdrop?"
manny	Manny painted the diner	NPAsubjobj	manny_NPAobj.mp3	Who painted the diner?	What did Manny paint?	"Alex, Manny, and Jessica are set designers for a play. Today, each person painted one piece of the set. They finished the house, the diner, and the backdrop."	"Oh, you're surprised that it was Manny who painted the diner, and not Alex?"	"Oh, you're surprised that Manny painted the diner, and not the backdrop?"
mary	Mary played the cello	NPAsubjobj	mary_NPAsubj.mp3	Who played the cello?	What did Mary play?	"Mary, David, and Ben tried out for the school orchestra. They all know how to play the cello, the violin, and the viola, but each person tried out for a different instrument."	"Oh, you're surprised that it was Mary who played the cello, and not David?"	"Oh, you're surprised that Mary played the cello, and not the violin?"
mary	Mary played the cello	NPAsubjobj	mary_NPAobj.mp3	Who played the cello?	What did Mary play?	"Mary, David, and Ben tried out for the school orchestra. They all know how to play the cello, the violin, and the viola, but each person tried out for a different instrument."	"Oh, you're surprised that it was Mary who played the cello, and not David?"	"Oh, you're surprised that Mary played the cello, and not the violin?"
molly	Molly peeled the lemon	NPAsubjobj	molly_NPAsubj.mp3	Who peeled the lemon?	What did Molly peel?	"Molly, Ben, and Tyler are making marmalade. The recipe calls for oranges and a lemon. They each peeled one fruit."	"Oh, you're surprised that it was Molly who peeled the lemon, and not Tyler?"	"Oh, you're surprised that Molly peeled the lemon, and not an orange?"
molly	Molly peeled the lemon	NPAsubjobj	molly_NPAobj.mp3	Who peeled the lemon?	What did Molly peel?	"Molly, Ben, and Tyler are making marmalade. The recipe calls for oranges and a lemon. They each peeled one fruit."	"Oh, you're surprised that it was Molly who peeled the lemon, and not Tyler?"	"Oh, you're surprised that Molly peeled the lemon, and not an orange?"
arcade	She went to the arcade	filler	filler_arcade.mp3	What did Ellen do?	Where did Ellen go?			
arcade2	She went to the arcade	filler	filler_arcade_2.mp3	What did Ellen do?	Where did Ellen go?			
hike	He went for a hike	filler	filler_hike.mp3	What did Liam do?	Where did Liam go?			
hike2	He went for a hike	filler	filler_hike_2.mp3	What did Liam do?	Where did Liam go?			
restaurant	He went to a restaurant	filler	filler_restaurant.mp3	What did Joey do?	Where did Joey go?			
restaurant2	He went to a restaurant	filler	filler_restaurant_2.mp3	What did Joey do?	Where did Joey go?			
hockey	She watched hockey	filler	filler_hockey.mp3	What did Hazel do?	What did Hazel watch?			
hockey2	She watched hockey	filler	filler_hockey_2.mp3	What did Hazel do?	What did Hazel watch?			